OOTB PDLC Happy Path documentation (#4144)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/modeler/web-modeler/process-application-pipeline.md

---
id: process-application-pipeline
title: Process application development lifecycle
description: You can use Web Modeler to quickly develop and progress low-risk process application releases through the stages of a typical development lifecycle.
---

import DeployProcessApplicationDiagramImg from './img/process-applications/diagram-process-application-pipeline.png'
import DeployStagesImg from './img/process-applications/define-stages.png'

You can use Web Modeler to quickly develop and progress low-risk process application releases through the stages of a typical development lifecycle.

<p><img src={DeployProcessApplicationDiagramImg} alt="Process application file list" /></p>

:::caution
For business-critical and higher-risk processes that require strict governance and/or quality requirements, you can [integrate Web Modeler into your CI/CD pipelines](/docs/guides/devops-lifecycle/integrate-web-modeler-in-ci-cd.md).
:::

## Model

During the modeling stage, you will typically:

- [Create a process application](create-a-process-application.md) and select a default development cluster to deploy to.
- Invite other users to collaborate on the process application.

> - Define and setup the clusters and deployment stages that you will use in your development pipeline.

Reviewer: Greta spot - edited 👍

> - Model your diagrams and any associated resources, and fix any errors shown in the modeler.

Author: "Fix errors shown in Modeler"

Reviewer: Thanks - edited 👍

---
id: process-application-pipeline

> title: Process application development pipeline

Reviewer 2: In this context, I define the process development lifecycle (PDLC) as all activities that go from discovery to improvement, were some activities like monitoring or analysis are performed in a different app like Operate or Optimize
I define the `deployment pipeline` as the activities to get a release candidate through the different stages/environments and quality gates out into production

> description: The Web Modeler provides a lightweight development pipeline you can use to quickly develop and progress low-risk process application releases through the stages of a standard development life cycle.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't match my mental image of how the deployment pipeline fits as a part of the development lifecycle. The deployment pipeline does not affect other activities like design, implementation, or maintenance

---

import DeployProcessApplicationDiagramImg from './img/process-applications/diagram-process-application-pipeline.png'
import DeployStagesImg from './img/process-applications/define-stages.png'

> You can use the Web Modeler development pipeline to quickly develop and progress low-risk process application releases through the stages of a standard development life cycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Web Modeler to quickly develop and progress low-risk process application releases through the stages of a standard development lifecycle.
```

Reviewer 2: Here's one way to clean up the language -please check through the PR as I didn't comment on all instances of development lifecycle / pipeline

<p><img src={DeployProcessApplicationDiagramImg} alt="Process application file list" /></p>

:::caution
For business-critical and higher-risk processes that require strict governance and/or quality requirements, you can [integrate Web Modeler into your CI/CD pipelines](/docs/guides/devops-lifecycle/integrate-web-modeler-in-ci-cd.md).
:::

## Model

During the modeling stage, you will typically:

- [Create a process application](create-a-process-application.md) and select a default development cluster to deploy to.
- Invite other users to collaborate on the process application.
- Define and setup the clusters and deployment stages that you will use in your development pipeline.
- Model your diagrams and any associated resources, and fix any errors shown in the modeler.

### Deployment stages

> You can deploy and promote an application process version between the stages of a standard development life cycle (development, testing, staging, production).

Reviewer 2: the deployment stages are on the deployment pipeline - the dev lifecycle is much bigger than this

Reviewer: Edited: You can deploy and promote an application process version through the stages of a standard deployment pipeline (development, testing, staging, and production).

:::

You can define and deploy to the following stages:

| Stage       | Description                                                                                                     |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Development | Use to create and test new software features and changes.                                                       |
| Testing     | Use for quality checks, ensuring software meets defined standards before release.                               |
| Staging     | Use for controlled testing where changes are validated before deployment to production.                         |
| Production  | The live system with the latest software. Only administrators and organization owners can deploy to this stage. |

## Validate

When your process application is ready for validation you can deploy it to your development cluster.

- Use [Play mode](play-your-process.md) to quickly validate the process behavior and play different scenarios.

> - Use [token simulation](token-simulation.md) to correct and optimize your process flow.

Reviewer 2: Token simulation is most valuable during the design phase because it ignores implementation details. By the time it's implemented, the user should use Play

Reviewer: Moved to the Model stage 👍
